falecimento muerte
legal legal
lavrador campesina
lavrador campesino
lavrador labrador
feito hecha
feito hecho
feito hecha
feito completado
feito hecho
ferrovia ferrocarril
ferrovia railroad
sacerdote priest
sacerdote sacerdote
cedo temprana
cedo temprano
frente frente
tuberculose tuberculosis
quinta quinto
quinta quinta
quinta rancho
quinta ranch
quinta hacienda
quinta granja
neta nieta
antiga antiguo
antiga antiguos
antiga antigua
antiga antiguo
antiga antigua
setenta setenta
natimorto nacido
natimorto nacida
censo censo
outubro octubre
perto cerca
imposto impuesto
imposto fiscales
divorciada divorciada
divorciada divorciados
divorciada divorciado
mulato mulato
mulato mulata
obreiro trabajador
obreiro operario
obreiro obrero
obreiro trabajador
obreiro operario
obreiro obrero
estado estado
estado estatus
estado estatuto
estado estado
padrinho godfather
padrinho padrino
defunto difunto
defunto fallecido
defunto fallecida
defunto difunta
defunto muerto
defunto finada
defunto muerta
defunto finado
mercado mercado
biblioteca biblioteca
curtidor curtidor
curtidor tanner
nariz nariz
trabalhador trabajador
trabalhador operario
trabalhador obrero
sepultamento entierro
nove nueve
tudo todas
tudo todoas
tudo todos
dedo dedo
mudo muda
mudo dumb
mudo mudo
hospedeiro hospedero
hospedeiro posadero
hospedeiro tabernero
servente sirviente
minha mi
grande grande
grande grandes
grande grande
grande gran
senhor mister
onde donde
surdo sorda
surdo sordos
surdo sordo
leste este
leste levante
leste oriente
sagrado sagrado
sagrado santo
sagrado santa
sagrado sagrada
sagrado sagrado
sagrado santo
sagrado santa
sagrado sagrada
testemunho testimonio
face frente
ouro oro
ouro gold
parentesco parentesco
parentesco consanguinidad
gota gout
gota gota
forasteira stranger
forasteira extranjera
forasteira extranjero
ou o
enfermidade enfermedad
sempre siempre
sexto sexto
sexto sexta
natimorta nacido
natimorta nacida
mulata mulato
mulata mulata
advogado abogada
advogado abogado
passado pasado
muito mucha
muito muy
muito mucho
muito mucha
muito muchos
muito muchas
muito mucho
cervejeiro cervecero
cervejeiro brewer
progenitor progenitor
idosa anciano
idosa anciana
idosa envejecido
idosa ancianos
idosa vieja
idosa viejo
idosa envejecida
direito derecho
direito ley
menonita menonita
vinha vineyard
futuro futuro
estrangeira stranger
estrangeira extranjera
estrangeira extranjero
quarto cuarto
quarto sala
quarto cuarto
quarto cuarta
mas sino
mas pero
testemunha testigo
casado casadas
casado casada
casado casado
data fecha
data data
fonte fuente
fonte fountain
fonte fuente
sala cuarto
sala sala
e i
e y
colheita cosecha
polaco polaca
polaco polacos
polaco polaco
desconhecida desconocidas
desconhecida desconocidos
desconhecida desconocido
desconhecida desconocida
mestre maestro
mestre master
mestre amo
treze trece
netos nietos
nosso nuestra
nosso nuestras
nosso nuestros
nosso nuestro
milha mile
milha milla
criada maid
criada criada
metade mitad
reino reino
oitenta ochenta
padrinhos padrinos
macho macho
macho masculinos
altura altura
parteira partera
parteira alytes
parteira comadrona
parteira matrona
olho ojo
bosque floresta
bosque forestales
bosque floresta
bosque grove
negra negra
negra black
negra negro
campo terreno
campo campo
negro negra
negro black
negro negro
vinhedo vineyard
soldado soldado
derrame plumazo
derrame derrame
epilepsia epilepsia
enterrado sepultado
enterrado enterrada
enterrado sepultada
enterrado enterrado
digna digno
digna digna
solteiro soltera
solteiro soltero
vinte veinte
acordo acuerdo
orfanato orfanato
surda sorda
surda sordos
surda sordo
norte norte
sepultado sepultado
sepultado enterrada
sepultado sepultada
sepultado enterrado
russo rusas
russo rusa
russo ruso
nome nombre
que lo
que que
que que
que ese
que aquel
que aquela
ambos ambos
ambos tanto
defunta difunto
defunta fallecido
defunta fallecida
defunta difunta
defunta muerto
defunta finada
defunta muerta
defunta finado
quinze quince
masculina masculina
masculina masculino
este este
este levante
este oriente
estrangeiro stranger
estrangeiro extranjera
estrangeiro extranjero
dez diez
concelho concilio
concelho consejo
quando cuando
protestante protestantes
protestante protestante
muitas menudo
muitas muchas
muitas frecuencia
gripe gripe
escrevente escribiente
escrevente scribe
escrevente amanuense
feita hecha
feita hecho
feita hecha
feita completado
feita hecho
lar hogar
antes antes
junho junio
natural espuria
natural natural
natural espurio
natural natural
natural naturales
noivos betrothed
noivos novios
de de
de de
tutela tutela
segundo segunda
segundo segundo
