a the
abcesso abscess
abril april
acre acre
adotado adopted
adotada adopted
advogada lawyer
afogamento drowning
agosto august
alcunha name
alfaiate tailor
algua some
ali there
alto high
alta high
aluguel rent
amarelo yellow
amarela yellow
portuguese english
ancestral ancestor
ano year
antepassada ancestor
anual annual
baixo low
baixa low
baptismo baptism
barco boat
batismo baptism
bispo bishop
boca mouth
boieiro herdsman
bom good
branco white
cadeia jail
capela chapel
carpinteiro carpenter
castelo castle
catedral cathedral
cego blind
cinco five
colina hill
colono settler
comerciante merchant
contra against
corrente current
cova grave
cujo whose
cuja whose
cura clergyman
curato parish
dente tooth
dentro within
descendente descendant
desconhecido unknown
desde since
dezembro december
dezenove nineteen
dezesseis sixteen
dezessete seventeen
dezoito eighteen
digno worthy
diocese diocese
disenteria dysentery
disputa disagreement
distrito district
divorciado divorced
dois two
domingo sunday
duque duke
ela she
ele he
eleas they
empregada maid
empregado employee
empregada employee
enteado stepchild
enteada stepchild
enterrada buried
enterro burial
escola school
escravo slave
escrava slave
esta this
eu i
exposto foundling
exposta foundling
extrato extract
falecida deceased
fazendeiro farmer
febre fever
feminino feminine
feminina feminine
ferreiro blacksmith
feudo fee
fevereiro february
fidalgo nobleman
folha page
fortaleza fortress
fraqueza weakness
freguesia parish
fronteira border
fundos funds
genealogia genealogy
gente people
hemorragia bleeding
herdeiro heir
hidropisia dropsy
hoje today
honesto honest
honesta honest
hora hour
idade age
igreja church
impedimento impediment
inquilino renter
inquilina renter
intestinos intestines
inverno winter
isso that
italiano italian
italiana italian
jardineiro gardener
jornal newspaper
judeu jewish
juiz judge
julho july
junto together
lago lake
lei law
leiteiro dairyman
livro book
luterana lutheran
madrasta stepmother
maio may
mais more
marido husband
marinha navy
marinheiro sailor
materno maternal
meio half
meia half
membro member
menos less
mesmo same
meu my
milho corn
mina mine
moinho mill
molestia disease
montanha mountain
morte death
muda dumb
nascido born
nascida born
nascimento birth
navio ship
nenhum none
neto grandson
nobreza nobility
noite night
noivado engagement
noivados betrothed
nono ninth
nona ninth
nossa our
noventa ninety
novo new
nova new
nunca never
o the
oeste west
oferta donation
oitavo eighth
oitava eighth
oito eight
onze eleven
orelha ear
padrasto stepfather
pais parents
pardo mulatto
parente relative
parto birth
passageiro passenger
passageira passenger
pastor shepherd
paterno paternal
paterna paternal
perna leg
pescador fisherman
peso weight
pesquisa research
pneumonia pneumonia
polaca polish
ponte bridge
porto port
povo people
prazo term
prefeito mayor
presente present
preto black
preta black
primeiro first
primo cousin
princesa princess
professor teacher
quarenta forty
quatorze fourteen
quatro four
quarta fourth
quinto fifth
rainha queen
realizar accomplish
recebimento receipt
registros registers
rei king
residente resident
retrato portrait
rio river
rito rite
rua street
russa russian
sapateiro shoemaker
segunda second
seis six
separado separated
separada separated
sepultada buried
serralheiro locksmith
sete seven
sexta sixth
sim yes
sobrevivente surviving
sociedade society
solenemente solemnly
solteira single
somente only
sueco swedish
sul south
tanoeiro cooper
taxa fee
tempo time
terceiro third
terceira third
testamenteiro executor
tia aunt
tintureiro dyer
trigo wheat
trinta thirty
tumor tumor
vale valley
variola smallpox
velho old
verde green
vermelho red
vermelha red
viva alive
vizinha neighbor
a to
a toward
acta record
acta document
alma soul
alma person
anjo angel
antigo old
antigo ancient
bem good
bem well
boda wedding
boda marriage
cavalheiro gentleman
cavalheiro knight
cavalheiro nobleman
cerca near
cerca approximate
como as
como how
conde count
conde earl
conhecido known
conhecido acquaintance
conhecida known
conhecida acquaintance
conhecido como
conhecida como
consorte spouse
consorte partner
conta account
conta bill
declarado declared
declarado stated
dele his
dele hers
dele its
dela his
dela hers
dela its
dispensa exemption
dispensa permission
dito stated
dito said
dito mentioned
dita stated
dita said
dita mentioned
dono owner
dono master
dona owner
dona master
engenho mill
entre between
entre among
epidemia epidemic
epidemia plague
esposo husband
esposo wife
esposa husband
esposa wife
fazenda estate
fazenda farm
filho child
filho son
floresta forest
floresta woods
fogo fire
fogo hearth
forasteiro foreigner
forasteiro stranger
guarda guard
guarda warden
guia directory
guia guidebook
homem man
homem husband
hospedaria hostel
hospedaria shelter
maior larger
maior elder
mais jovem
mais youngest
mais eldest
meia noite
meia midnight
meio dia
meio noon
meio midday
menino boy
menino girl
menina boy
menina girl
menor younger
menor smaller
mercadoria goods
mercadoria wares
muita many
muita very
nobre noble
nobre nobleman
noiva bride
noivo bridegroom
outro other
outro another
para for
para to
pastor pastor
pastor minister
por by
por for
povoado town
povoado village
registros civis
sagrada holy
sagrada sacred
santo holy
santo sacred
santo saint
santa holy
santa sacred
santa saint
sendo because
sendo being
senhora madam
senhora lady
sepultura grave
sepultura sepulchre
serra ridge
seu his
seu her
seu their
sexo sex
sexo gender
sobre about
sobre above
sobre concerning
sobrinho nephew
sobrinho niece
sobrinha nephew
sobrinha niece
sua his
sua her
sua their
tanto quanto
tem he
tem she
termo record
termo entry
testamento will
testamento testament
todos all
todos everyone
todoas all
todoas everyone
vez turn
vez time
vez occasion
