falecimento óbito
falecimento defunción
falecimento muerte
legal lícita
legal jurídicos
legal lícito
legal legal
legal jurídica
legal jurídico
inglês inglés
inglês ingléa
inglês inglesa
lavrador campesina
lavrador campesino
lavrador labrador
feito hecha
feito hecho
feito hecha
feito completado
feito hecho
ferrovia ferrocarril
ferrovia railroad
sacerdote párroco
sacerdote priest
sacerdote sacerdote
cedo temprana
cedo temprano
frente frente
tuberculose tuberculosis
quinta quinto
quinta quinta
quinta rancho
quinta ranch
quinta hacienda
quinta granja
neta nieta
antiga antiguo
antiga antiguos
antiga antigua
antiga antiguo
antiga antigua
setenta setenta
natimorto nacido
natimorto nacida
censo censo
outubro octubre
perto cerca
ofício oficio
ofício oficina
sábado sábado
imposto impuesto
imposto fiscales
cristão demócrata-cristianos
cristão cristiano
cristão cristiana
divorciada divorciada
divorciada divorciados
divorciada divorciado
mulato mulato
mulato mulata
obreiro trabajador
obreiro operario
obreiro obrero
obreiro trabajador
obreiro operario
obreiro obrero
estado estado
estado estatus
estado estatuto
estado estado
padrinho godfather
padrinho padrino
defunto difunto
defunto fallecido
defunto fallecida
defunto difunta
defunto muerto
defunto finada
defunto muerta
defunto finado
mercado mercado
biblioteca biblioteca
curtidor curtidor
curtidor tanner
nariz nariz
sarampo sarampión
trabalhador trabajador
trabalhador operario
trabalhador obrero
sepultamento entierro
nove nueve
evangélica evangélica
evangélica evangélico
tudo todas
tudo todoas
tudo todos
adultério adulterio
dedo dedo
mudo muda
mudo dumb
mudo mudo
hospedeiro hospedero
hospedeiro posadero
hospedeiro tabernero
servente sirviente
minha mío
minha mi
minha mía
grande grande
grande grandes
grande grande
grande gran
eclesiástico eclesiásticos
eclesiástico eclesiástico
eclesiástico eclesiástica
senhor mister
senhor s.
onde donde
onde dónde
surdo sorda
surdo sordos
surdo sordo
leste este
leste levante
leste oriente
sagrado sagrado
sagrado santo
sagrado santa
sagrado sagrada
sagrado sagrado
sagrado santo
sagrado santa
sagrado sagrada
testemunho testimonio
face frente
ouro oro
ouro gold
parentesco parentesco
parentesco consanguinidad
gota gout
gota gota
forasteira extraña
forasteira extraño
forasteira stranger
forasteira extranjera
forasteira extranjero
ou o
enfermidade enfermedad
sempre siempre
sexto sexto
sexto sexta
natimorta nacido
natimorta nacida
mulata mulato
mulata mulata
oração rezo
oração oración
oração prayer
advogado abogada
advogado abogado
passado pasado
muito mucha
muito muy
muito mucho
muito mucha
muito muchos
muito muchas
muito mucho
emigração emigración
cervejeiro cervecero
cervejeiro brewer
progenitor progenitor
idosa anciano
idosa anciana
idosa envejecido
idosa ancianos
idosa vieja
idosa viejo
idosa envejecida
direito derecho
direito ley
proprietário dueña
proprietário propietario
proprietário amo
proprietário dueño
proprietário propietario
menonita menonita
vinha vineyard
vinha viña
vinha viñedo
futuro futuro
diarréia diarrea
estrangeira extraña
estrangeira extraño
estrangeira stranger
estrangeira extranjera
estrangeira extranjero
quarto cuarto
quarto sala
quarto cuarto
quarto cuarta
mas sino
mas pero
diário diario
testemunha testigo
índice índice
índice Índice
casado casadas
casado casada
casado casado
data fecha
data data
fonte fuente
fonte fountain
fonte fuente
sala cuarto
sala sala
doação donación
décimo duodécimo
décimo duodécima
décimo decimotercer
décimo décimotercero
décimo decimotercera
décimo décimotercera
décimo décimoctavo
décimo xviii
décimo décimoctava
décimo decimoctavo
décimo décimo
décimo décima
décimo décimoquinta
décimo décimoquinto
décimo decimoquinto
décimo undécima
décimo undécimo
décimo décimo
décimo décimosexta
décimo decimosexto
décimo décimosexto
décimo décimocuarta
décimo decimocuarta
décimo décimocuarto
décimo xix
décimo décimonono
décimo décimonona
católica católico
católica diócesis
católica católica
e i
e y
vizinhança vecindad
colheita cosecha
polaco polaca
polaco polacos
polaco polaco
desconhecida desconocidas
desconhecida desconocidos
desconhecida incógnita
desconhecida desconocido
desconhecida desconocida
desconhecida incógnito
mestre maestro
mestre master
mestre amo
treze trece
evangélico evangélica
evangélico evangélico
núpcias boda
núpcias casamiento
núpcias matrimonio
núpcias nupcias
núpcias boda
núpcias nupcias
núpcias wedding
trigésimo trigésimo
trigésimo trigésima
profissão profesión
netos nietos
nosso nuestra
nosso nuestras
nosso nuestros
nosso nuestro
milha mile
milha milla
criada maid
criada criada
próxima próximo
próxima próxima
metade mitad
reino reino
oitenta ochenta
cana caña
constipação constipación
constipação estreñimiento
padrinhos padrinos
macho macho
macho masculinos
macho varón
família familiar
família familia
sétima séptimo
sétima séptima
altura altura
parteira partera
parteira alytes
parteira comadrona
parteira matrona
olho ojo
sítio lugar
sítio sitio
sítio sitio
sétimo séptimo
sétimo séptima
bosque floresta
bosque forestales
bosque floresta
bosque grove
herança patrimonio
herança herencia
negra negra
negra black
negra negro
campo ámbito
campo terreno
campo campo
negro negra
negro black
negro negro
vinhedo vineyard
vinhedo viña
vinhedo viñedo
quinta-feira jueves
soldado soldado
derrame plumazo
derrame derrame
epilepsia epilepsia
enterrado sepultado
enterrado enterrada
enterrado entierrado
enterrado entierrada
enterrado sepultada
enterrado enterrado
digna digno
digna digna
solteiro soltera
solteiro único
solteiro soltero
vinte veinte
acordo acuerdo
convulsão convulsión
orfanato orfanato
orfanato pinnawala
surda sorda
surda sordos
surda sordo
norte norte
sepultado sepultado
sepultado enterrada
sepultado entierrado
sepultado entierrada
sepultado sepultada
sepultado enterrado
russo rusas
russo rusa
russo ruso
nome nombre
nome n.
que lo
que que
que qué
que que
que ese
que esesa
que aquel
que aquela
ambos amboas
ambos ambos
ambos tanto
defunta difunto
defunta fallecido
defunta fallecida
defunta difunta
defunta muerto
defunta finada
defunta muerta
defunta finado
judeia judío
judeia judía
pé pie
quinze quince
língua lengua
língua idioma
língua lenguaje
língua lengua
língua materna
masculina masculina
masculina masculino
este este
este levante
este oriente
estrangeiro extraña
estrangeiro extraño
estrangeiro stranger
estrangeiro extranjera
estrangeiro extranjero
dez diez
concelho concilio
concelho consejo
quando cuando
quando cuándo
paróquia parish
paróquia feligresía
paróquia curato
paróquia parroquia
protestante protestantes
protestante protestante
muitas menudo
muitas muchas
muitas frecuencia
gripe gripe
heráldica heráldica
escrevente escribiente
escrevente scribe
escrevente amanuense
feita hecha
feita hecho
feita hecha
feita completado
feita hecho
lar hogar
antes antes
junho junio
natural espuria
natural natural
natural ilegítima
natural ilegítimo
natural espurio
natural natural
natural naturales
noivos betrothed
noivos novios
de de
de de
tutela tutela
segundo segunda
segundo segundo
